Thank you again everyone. Thank you everyone for participating. Thank you for coming. Thank you
again. Thank you Dr. Delos. Good morning Dr. Delos. Everyone, thank you.
Again, we continue to go through the teachings of the great master, visionary, Tethu, Dudjo-Lungpa
's teachings, Sharp Vajra Awareness, all in a very shiit-like, dhol-jai-nombu. We continue doing
that.
And to begin the teaching, again, we could always restenstiny, regrouping our motivations to the
one-pointed mind state. That is joy and appreciation, a greater force.
And I mentioned many times to you, I mean you all know really, we have to be, have joy, joy and
effort. That is very foundational. And call it, in the central corner of the enlightenment Buddha.
Buddha. Buddha who?
When we like to get enlightened, or we like to discover our own true nature, we begin that right
now with joy and appreciation, grateful and graceful, gratitude.
All those beautiful words, not just a leaf that on the shelf or somewhere, activate that to our
heart. That itself is really practices. It is essence practices.
Dokki meditation, for example, we do Dokki meditation without joy and appreciation, being grateful.
We won't go far. That's really.
We received the teachings so many years ago. And we also practiced a little bit, but we are missing
some ingredients.
What is it? That is joy and appreciation, gratitude, and the bodhicata, and the devotions, or
closing the connects to the lineage.
All those are so powerful ingredients. They are simple, simple that everybody knows that.
But if you apply that to the heart and the mind, then really the wonders of the beauty will show up
with ourself. We will see differences there.
So therefore, joy and appreciation, and thankful, grateful to Buddha Dharma Sangha. And not just
only that, thank for yourself.
To all the situations and circumstances you have in samsara level too. We have one of the best sams
ara level situations and circumstances in these countries.
Really that. And so thankful, grateful.
Grateful, thankful is not that we are going to have to spend a lot of money or become something
rich, have to do that.
That is basic richness of ourself. Everyone has that. But because we are not exploring, that is all
poor mentalities and power ages.
And then become kind of poorer and poorer, poorer and then won't drill up anything.
And therefore, really the joy and appreciation, grateful, thankful, all those so many ways, I mean
you know that.
Actually that, with that, what great, I mean Buddha, gracious teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni said, one
in his teachings, known as dhodopa, in that way.
Dhodopa, in the English, is called, the samsara is called, the satayangata.
And he condense the meaning of the entire Pandya Paramada teaching.
The entire Pandya Paramada teaching, what that means?
One thousand standard teaching, he condense it in one short poem in the teachings, or his story
says it has 300 verses, 300 verses.
One hundred thousand standard teaching, condense it in three hundred standard teaching, Buddha
directly spoke with all the dialogues.
Many times in the Buddha teaching has a lot of dialogues back and forth.
Because the Buddha like to give the opportunity to explore, to reveal that everyone's Buddha nature
, there was some shining Buddha, or there's so many dialogues.
But this teaching is one of the way, renowned and permanent teaching, straightforward.
Said when Buddha saw the perfect situation, opportunity in the world just with motives, he locally,
kind of very gracefully, to all the poor groups of the audience.
And those are, Apasaka male and female, and Shavasaka male and female, and Bodhisattva male and
female, and the lay practitioners.
Those are poor groups. He looked and he, then he spoke directly.
In that teaching at the beginning time, what is it?
Joy. Joy, respect and devotion keep close to the heart.
Then, well, glorified obscurations, or the stains, and, of obscurations, and then glorified stains.
Stains. So that is what that means.
When you were just practicing, meditating, when you were reflecting the teachings, we should always
have the joy, as I said.
In the teaching, all the teachings said, joy and appreciation to the teaching, to the practicing,
to ourself.
Also, then, said, devotions. Devotions to the lineage.
This is the wisdom lineage teaching. It's not as all can be discovered all night, night by song.
Really, we are connected to the truly wisdom lineage of our love, love and compassion, that uninter
rupted from the time that Buddha gave the gracious teacher, Buddha gave the teaching, until now.
Really, that joy, appreciation, devotions.
And then, of course, we heard so many times in the practicing lineage, we know that devotion,
realization, won't shine.
Later Master Sara, I said, in the teaching, when you don't have the devotions, it really looks like
you like to get sunlight in one cave, C-A-V-E, cave,
which is passing north, and like to get sunshine. And how you can get sunshine in that?
And though the devotion, if you like to have that realization, if we just like ourselves, kidding
ourselves, we must really pulling ourselves up.
When you have the devotion, that means our skeptical thoughts are gone. Our doubt and hesitation
are gone.
The respect and appreciation are coming. And then, we are strongly connected to the teaching.
You feel the preciousness, preciousness of time, our situation, our body, and the teaching, all
really feel the preciousness.
Otherwise, it's just a casual or something, all that is casual, casual.
We've been doing, thinking of neglecting that casual thought and missing so many points.
Truly, really, think of ourself, ourself. Therefore, please stand. If we would like to develop
something to the heart and the mind,
and we'd like to lead that richness with this world, we have to have those joy and the devotees,
appreciation.
And then, respect. Oh, sorry. Then, we've got to mix it up a little bit, but what my brother said
in the tibet,
God name, Kudai, Tevah. Goa, Kupa, Tevah. Goa means joy. Kupa means respect, respect, appreciation
to the lineage,
and tevah means devotion or the pain, f-a-i-t-h, pain to the teaching.
That means you have courage and commitment. I'm going to practice. Unshakable pain.
And if the stock were paid, not just the paid of the surface, on the deck, from the deep of our
heart, from the goal of our own bones,
develop the pain or the devotion. Devotion is more richness. Pain is just a strong courage and
commitment,
a pain for more operations. With ourself, would that mean we're surrendering our ego to our own
true nature?
Our true nature. Ego is completely, kind of like, from Tefan, so many times, us.
So, when we have the devotion, the pain, strongly with the devotion, with that, really, we are
going to,
we are going to defeat the ego, Kalimah. We are going to win a side, a winner side. We are going to
win that.
So, we want all those we were taught in the applications. Then, worry about this, obscurations.
It will also remove the obscurations. And I will tell those maybe later, next time.
But I want, there is six, five obscurations in the teaching method.
Five obscurations are really the obstacle for us. There's always a day of waiting, waiting.
And what the great master Nagarjuna said, there are these five obstacles are the rovers.
Robers of the spiritual realization, they rob us. They will rob. They're waiting after the rovers.
They say, "Banditos," or the gangsters. They will rob our spiritual richness colleges.
Maybe I will just try to listen to that. First is, "Why mind?"
Why mind? "Guten," "Yuten," and then regret. Second is regret.
"Guten," I mean, "Guten," one mind, and then "Yoba," as I think one, one in a regret.
So, one, "Guten," "Yuten," "Nosin," and "Violence taught," is second.
Third is "Guten," "Yuten," "Nosin," "Mukbat," and "Dileness taught."
Together with the "Sleepy taught" and the "Dileness taught."
As combined together, again, so three. So that means, "Wild taught," "Recolored taught," are one.
And "Violence taught" are second. And third one is, "Pogi taught" and "Sleepy taught," are third.
And "Guten," "Nulandama," and always, and then fourth one, "Craving sensual pleasure objects."
"Craving," "Craving sensual pleasure objects." That means "pipe sensual pleasure objects."
"Poem," "Song," "Smell," "Taste," "Touch," "Touch," or "Mental State."
Six, then six becomes six, "Guten," "Guten," "Nosin," "Mukbat," and again, maybe, "Guten," "Nosin,"
"Mukbat," and "Dulandama."
And the fifth one is, "Doubt," "Doubt." The fifth one is, "Doubt."
These five are the big robbers to rob our spiritual realization, or spiritual foundations, or
Dharma practices.
They're waiting, and they're really waiting, kind of. They're like, "I've told you maybe this is
like in the, kind of, like, image."
They're like hyenas in the jungles, in Africa's apart. They're waiting, just anything. And then it
will rob.
And for that reason, great master, Shanti, Shanti Deva said, "We are distracted. When we are
distracted, mind is distracted.
We are always, and things, F-A-N-G-S, I think, things. We are things of the emotions.
And we are distracted with things on the, on the jaw, jaw, things of the emotions.
Your friends with emotions, what emotions? Those five bosons, all those five boundaries, boundaries
, those boundaries.
Any time they can attack, any time they can, their jaw, the elbow.
So this is what great master, I mean, the gracious teacher, Brother Hekim, he said.
Trying to watch out with those five rovers, five rovers, and then continually advance with the jaw,
in a divided appreciation,
shaping, and accumulating six paramatas. And awarding the opposite of six paramatas.
Six paramatas, of course, many of you, almost everyone knows, but few of you know, six paramatas
are generous paramatas.
Morality paramatas, and patient paramatas. Your effort to determine paramatas, and concentration
paramatas,
and as well as wisdom paramatas. Those are the five paramatas. Opposite of that, trying to award
the opposite of the six paramatas.
And those are exactly, I think you all know, opposite of the generous practice, miserly grasping,
and opposite of the morality.
Morality is, is then, unethicals, or not keeping up with conduct. Conduct as, as like normal sams
ara levels with conduct, as well as spiritual dharma.
Dharma as vinayas, or the parthima, vinayas, as well as bodhisattva, vedayana, those are known as
then, not keeping up.
Kind of completely mixed up, and it diluted, and already jumping.
And the next one is the patient. Opposite of the patient is very, very unpatient.
Unpatient. All become so sensitive, and immediately kind of trying to attack someone.
Trying to attack with the verbally, mentally, physically. That is the opposite of the paramatas.
And of course, each of those are really big obscurations.
And the Buddha's teaching mentioned, and the great Master Shanti, they were saying, there is no
worse obstacle than anger.
There is no better virtues than the patient. Patient. Patient is so powerful. Powerful.
And so therefore, this, then, also trying to avoid those, I mean, trying to, even we got those
emotions,
strongly, but trying to catch, immediately trying to codify, free strengthening.
That's known as mindfulness, alertness, immediately recognize.
The great teacher, Buddha Shakyamintore, the value and importance of the mindfulness.
And we all have that, but we don't pay attention. We don't alert that.
Mindfulness, alertness, consciousness.
They are like, what great Master Janggu Kondra said in his teaching.
They are like, if you keep that, if you have that three, your great teacher, Buddha is right with
you.
They are like living Buddha. They are really, in some other teachings, they are the inner masters.
Mindfulness, alertness, consciousness, they are the inner teacher.
Our teacher, spiritual teacher, all those out, but inner teacher, our true inner teacher, that's
always with us.
And we keep. And that is.
And then, the opposite of the joyful effort to dharma is the laziness. Laziness.
There is a laziness known as also laziness that attracted to the old lady in the Buddha teaching,
of course.
Buddha teaching, there is laziness that attracted with old habit dependence.
That attracted. Trying to just secure it because of our habit dependence, we call that.
Whenever we like to do something kind of like practice and meditate, and suddenly that shows up on
the front.
Or I have to clean my cards. Or I couldn't clean for a long time my cards inside.
Now I'm going to clean now. And after that, I'm going to practice.
Of course, I take my dogs outside. Of course, my pet couldn't go out for so long.
I'm going to take that, and then I'm going to practice.
There are so many good things, and kind of appealing things come in front of that, and then we lost
that opportunity.
And then kind of also come, "Oh, this will be a long time. Now I have to eat."
Or something like that. Those are days, you know, I can eat, and then I go.
And then kind of a little sleepy treat.
So all these things get laziness.
And then also laziness in the Buddha take, you can imagine laziness is called sub, what's it called
?
Sub, disrespect with one's own self.
Disrespect for one's own self is also formal laziness.
We should respect ourselves. Really respect.
We have after all Buddha take, in general Buddha take, we have beautiful seven, like eight in Dorm
in, beautiful eyes.
And then, and more than that, in the Buddha taking offering, this, our sub is weakly to close the
ocean of the samsara.
It's like boat. This is a boat. It's how spacious, how spacious, how spacious.
Because of this body, I can also activate the practice meditate, and do benefit for all the
sentiments through the body.
Without a book home, how I can help?
Soul space. And then Buddha nature is right beside in our heart.
Heart. In the very energy, then this body is not just a regular. It's five times a Buddha.
That's right. And also in a, in a, we, we, we, we, we joined the Port in Dormpo. Port in Dormpo.
What is it?
This five, this body is five out of the gate. It's the other five living Buddha.
And with respect to the, this, this respect to our own body, we're making the Dormpo, I think, pure
Dormpo.
Or maybe at Dormpo. I mean, we really joined.
That leads so many ways. This is self-respect. So important.
And with that respect, then keep up the qualities. Your identity, your self.
And then, next one, opposite of the, of the, of the concentrations.
Opposite of the concentration is the distractions. Distracted. Distracted.
When we're distracted by all the external, mundane world with the sensory pleasure object,
all past memories, all future plans, all wonder, whatever. That is destruction.
During the meditation, for example, when you meditate, concentrating, we're not going to hold any
of those.
Not memories of the past, nor plans of the future, not wondering on the prison time, these and that
things.
Not recollecting of past memories of the, kind of, sensory pleasure object, whatever.
Any of those forms, we're distracted from the nature because we like to relax, calm and peaceful.
One single point in mind, we state this. State. And one necessary state is we like to stay and we
're distracted.
So avoid those things. And then, next one, opposite of the, the verse of them is,
then what's opposite of the verse of them is ignorance, not knowing clearly and opening our self,
more, kind of, understanding variety. The knowledge is open.
Knowledge is not just one, kind of, glue in one thing and not really open in the door, door.
And at the same time, because of the, using the reason that I don't know,
then saying that reason, ignoring the past, ignoring the future, ignoring anything.
Because quite much the reason, that means, oh, there's no past, there's no, not with the future.
There's nothing any else because I don't see, I don't know.
So that means we are overpowering to our own unknowing situation and ignoring the old things.
And then deeper level, in the Buddha's teaching mentioned farmers and all different qualities, kind
of, ignoring them.
That, and that's those all known as the opposite of the six paramatas. And then you all know.
So then when you keep that powerful debate with all that qualities, and then what is that?
Then we are accumulated to marriage. Accumulated to marriage and was still married.
And that same time is by, because of that, purifying the emotional obscurations and knowledge obsc
urations in the teaching state.
It will purify that. And it will then, our Buddha nature, as we talked yesterday in the video and I
'll teach you,
or in the Zouki teaching, the Buddha is residing in our heart.
But we have to purify all obscurations.
That seven times of the human side or human height is underneath that.
What are those? Two obscurations, emotional obscurations, knowledge obscurations, surface of the
emotional obscurations.
Those five organs or five robots are listed. They are on the surface, all the time on the surface.
In a way, guarding to not reword our traits, because ego coming in all, self-important, unknowing
situations.
What the great Master Shanti Deva said,
"Even the deep dawn, every living being has the intention to be happy in joy.
But where we act, through ignorance, destroying the cause of happiness and joy and peace,
and running forward through the troubles, and the difficulty and the challenge.
Because what? It's because due to the unknowing, or ignorance.
That's the hierarchy. Therefore, many in the practical lineage sometimes say, "Kinder to yourself,
wake up yourself.
Please strengthen our courage and commitment.
Bounce back, not let fail dawn or fall dawn in the ditch, and lay down there in the ditch.
Get up, bounce back to the path, and advance. Stand whole, strongly, and then move advanced."
Those are really in the teaching state.
So those are all kind of like, I mean, that, with those we were told and understand of the great
teachings of the great teacher,
Brother Shachamuni, and as well as Brother or the great Master.
And then, of course, when we reflect the teaching, then we join appreciation.
But when we reflect, we work together, and kindness compares to all living beings.
And again, of course, you all know, I mean, everybody, we heard something.